Everywhere you look in the B2B and SAS
marketing space right now, people are
saying SEO is dead. And usually the
argument goes, no one uses Google,
everyone uses chat GPT instead. And
because of all this noise, a lot of
companies are starting to think it's
time to abandon ship. But hold on a sec.
New research from Graphite and Similar
Web analyzed 40,000 of the biggest
websites in the US, and the findings
completely contradict what a lot of
folks are saying. So, in this video, I'm
going to break down exactly what the
data shows, debunk the myths that are
spreading like wildfire, and I'll share
what's actually going to change for SAS
SEO in 2026, so you can prepare and set
yourself up for success. Let's dive in.
So, thanks to Similar Web and Graphite,
let's dig into what the data actually
shows. So, the myth is that SEO traffic
is down 25% or more. And you may have
seen headlines on LinkedIn news outlets
or otherwise claiming that traffic's
dropped anywhere from 25% to 60%. But
the problem here is these organic
traffic numbers are often based on
flawed research. And these are often
super small sample sizes with tiny
surveys of just 10 to 20 websites. And
the problem with surveys is that our
memories as humans are often unreliable.
And those that do respond to surveys
around AI search tend to be those early
adopters to LLMs. meaning they're using
LLMs way more than average and the data
gets skewed. All right, so let's break
down the numbers from Graphite and
Similar Web's report analyzing 40,000 of
the biggest sites in the US. First off,
SEO traffic is only down 2.5% yearonear,
not 25%. And that was an overestimation
of around a,000% with a lot of the
claims and studies floating around. And
this actually aligns with what Google
said back in August 2025 where they
mentioned overall organic click volume
had been relatively stable yearon-year.
Traffic to search engines went up 6.9%
from 2019 to 2020. It decreased slightly
in 2022 by about 1.5% and has been
relatively flat since 2023. In fact, in
2025, traffic increased slightly to
Google at plus.8%. And across search
engines as a whole, it increased plus
4%. And lastly, visitors to Google
actually grew 1.35% when you compare
quarter 4, 2025 to quarter 4, 2024. So
all the LLM and AI search hype to one
side, let's remember that Google is
still a demand capture beast for driving
leads, demos, signups, and revenue. And
if we break down some earlier research
from Datas and Spark Toro, Google
processes over 14 billion searches each
and every day. Yep, I said 14 billion
searches each and every day. Whereas
Chat GBT handles around 37.5 million
chatike prompts each and every day. This
tells us Google gets around 373
times more searches than chat GBT. So
even if we combine the daily prompts
across chat GBT, Perplexity, Claude,
Copilot, and Gemini, that total combined
would still be under 2% of the total
search market. Meaning Google maintains
a 93.57%
market share of search. Now, at Breaking
B2B, we deal with a lot of SAS clients
selling to technical users. And the
thing to remember is a lot of these
folks are using AI search, whether
that's Google AI overviews, Chat GBT or
other LLMs as a big part of their
research right through to evaluation and
consideration stages. So doing that
early research trying to work out how to
fix maybe the problem they have, trying
to then eventually assess the right type
of vendor for the problem or maybe
they're looking to move away from their
current vendor. So they're trying to
weigh up what's the best software
solution or product that's going to hit
their exact needs, be within their price
point, tackle the problems they're
trying to solve, and much, much more.
And what we're seeing is a lot of the
inbound demo requests and similar that
come in from folks that mention chat GPT
or other AI search tools in the how did
you hear about us field on inquiry forms
or mention that on the sales call when
the rep asks what was their journey to
stumbling across us today. A lot of
those leads do come in more qualified
because they've done so much more
research beforehand. So the point is AI
search still super important and can
drive some super qualified inbound
opportunities. Now before I get into
what's actually changing and how you can
prepare if you want to start driving
pipeline from SEO and AO as quick as 90
days then grab a call with me over at
breakingb2.com.
We can chat through exactly where you're
at, where you'd like to get to, and see
if we're a good match to start driving
pipeline mindshare and revenue through
Google organic and AI searches. Head
over to breakingb.com or hit the link in
the description below to grab a call
with me. Right, back to the video. So,
if SEO ain't dead yet, what about Google
AI overviews stealing all of our clicks?
And this is another big concern that we
hear all the time across sales calls
with SAS companies. And yes, Google AI
overviews does decrease click-through
rates by about 35% when they appear. But
what many people are missing is that
Google AI overviews only appear around
30% of the time, not 50% like some
studies are claiming. And these mostly
impact informational keywords, not
commercial and high sales intent ones.
And digging into an example of
anformational keyword that might trigger
a Google AI overviews. That might be
something like how to build a sales
process. And usually these are topfunnel
searches where someone's nowhere near
ready to speak to sales or have a sales
conversation. they're super early in
their research stage and don't really
have that intent. They're just trying to
learn more about the topic or industry.
And what this means is when prospects
are searching for these questions like
how to do X or what is Y or something
fairly simple queries, they get
instantly answered by Google AI
overviews, meaning people get that
response straight away above the fold in
Google search, meaning they're super
unlikely to click through to one of the
blue links and then go through to a web
page because they're getting the answer
straight away. That's why we always
recommend starting with bottom of the
sales funnel when it comes to SEO and AI
search. What's a dream client actually
searching when they need your software
solution, comparing options, comparing
vendors looking to move away from their
incumbent or have a very crisp and
specific problem, use case or
integration that they need to solve
because they're in buying mode, meaning
they have that high sales intent. Plus,
Google AI overviews are less likely to
trigger. So, they'll be more likely to
click through to an organic search
result on your website. And likewise, if
you're using tools like chat GPT,
instead of getting that instant answer
to that topfunnel query, if you're going
for a bottomfunnel specific search where
someone's looking to evaluate software,
move away from a current vendor or do a
deep dive into a specific solution,
that's more likely to trigger something
called grounding where chat GBT will
actually do a deep dive search using
systems like Google and otherwise and
then giving you actual branded results.
So giving you company recommendations,
pulling through citations from external
sites and beyond. And one thing to
remember is Google's featured snippets
were kind of already doing this. Before
Google AI overviews, Google showed the
featured snippets and many times those
also impacted click-through rates.
Featured snippets used to appear around
20% of the time. So in many cases,
Google AI overviews essentially replaced
featured snippets. Therefore, the net
impact isn't actually as dramatic as
people are making out. And another myth
is that Google's pushing more and more
clicks to ads with Google paid search.
You've probably seen already that
sponsored ads are taking up more and
more real estate, especially at the top
of page one of Google. But even so, the
data shows that many people still want
to click through to the organic
non-sponsored results. And the research
shows that 90% of all clicks are still
going through to the organic listings,
meaning 10% are going through to
sponsored ads. So the ratio shifted
slightly here by around 7%. But organic
clicks are still 10 times more than paid
clicks. So what's actually changing in
2026 that your SAS company needs to
prepare for? Search is changing for sure
is becoming more and more about mind
share and being consistently the brand
of choice. Google AI overviews, the AI
mode, Chat GBT, Perplexity, and many
more AI search tools and LLMs. They all
want to keep you on platform for as long
as physically possible without the need
of having to click through to an
external website. And this is why many
SAS websites are seeing clickthroughs
steadily go down whilst impressions are
going up even more so if historically
you've focused on top offunnel
moreformationalbased content. And this
is why in the world of LLMs and AI
search, having your brand mentioned
consistently when dream clients are in
market for your software and solutions
is absolutely crucial. So how are we
seeing the buyer journey change right
now? Well, with the drop through clicks,
a lot of prospects are doing a ton of
their research and evaluation all
through the AI search tools themselves.
meaning they're looking for solutions to
their expensive problems, evaluating
vendors, looking at pros and cons,
checking pricing, and much, much more.
And once they grab all the information
they need through AI search, they might
type in your brand name on Google, then
click through to your site, so it shows
as branded search. Or they might search
your website URL directly and go
straight to your homepage. And by this
stage, they may be fairly late in their
buying journey. So they might flick
through your website, check your pricing
again, check your results, case studies,
check any more information they need
around your product or solution, and
then grab a call, grab a demo, or sign
up. And this is why many SAS companies
are seeing branded search volumes go up,
as well as direct traffic. And that's
why it's important to know a lot of the
time SEO and AEO is doing all the hard
work here, yet the end conversion is
showing up as branded search. That's why
it's super important on your inquiry,
demo forms, signup forms, and more to
ask, "How did you hear about us?" I'd
even say to ask it again on sales
conversations on that initial discovery
or demo call. Your reps can ask
something like, "What was your full
journey to stumbling across us today?"
And then, of course, that could be
transcribed through Gong, Fathom, or
another sales recording tool added to
your CRM. And that way you can start
flagging when folks are coming in
through chat GBT, Google or other AI
search tools. The line between search
engines and AI is definitely blurring
and that's probably why many are calling
it search everywhere optimization now.
And as we've talked about, Google are
adding more AI overviews and have
launched their own AI mode interface,
essentially their version of chat GPT.
OpenAI is coming up with their own
browser Atlas. So, it's likely that
traditional search and LLMs are going to
see more and more overlap in the years
to come. and your B2B buyers are
probably doing a mix of AI search and
traditional Google search as part of
their research and evaluation process.
Especially if you're selling to
techsavvy dream clients, they're
probably using AI search throughout the
whole process. So, what should your SAS
company do to start crushing SEO and AAO
in 2026 and beyond? As we've mentioned
from this report, Google is still a
demand capture beast. So, certainly
don't neglect it. And the good news is
what we're seeing across dozens of SAS
clients at Breaking B2B is that classic
bottom offunnel pipeline focused SEO
still serves a solid foundation to get
recommended and cited in AI searches.
Going after money keywords and money
pages like best X software, best X tool
for Y industry, competitor alternatives,
competitor pricing, competitor reviews,
competitor one versus competitor 2
versus you. really exhausting every way
a dream client could search for your
software or solution when they need it.
Now, every way they could compare a
vendor, if they're in that evaluation
stage, against another vendor and then
position your solution as the one of
choice with a fair summary and showing
how you differentiated and why folks
actually choose you. And of course,
appearing when folks are frustrated with
their current solution or software,
showing exactly where you can hit those
current pain points. And again, being
fair on where you're a poor fit, where
you're a great fit, and why customers
choose you, backed by that allimportant
customer research, it's something we
very much practice what we preach at
breaking B2B. So, one of our money
keywords is best SAS SEO agencies. And
you can see here on Google organic
search, if you're watching, we've got
our listicle ranking top right now in
the UK as well as oftent times in the US
and other regions, too. Right now, it's
worth noting that listicles rank
exceptionally well on both classic
Google organic AI search and LLMs,
especially if you're trying to show up
for any bottom of funnel best x software
tools or platform based queries as well
as competitor alternatives and similar
searches. AI overviews absolutely love
to pull from these listical based
articles. So really making sure that you
build these out on your site for each
and every variation of the software that
your dream clients could search for as
well as those alternative keywords is
super powerful for both classic Google
organic and AI searches. And if we do a
similar search on chat GBT, we can see
breaking B2B mentioned here near the top
and it's actually pulling the citation
from our own listical of the top 10 best
SAS SEO agencies. So, it shows you how
powerful really controlling the
narrative and making sure on your own
website you're building out all of these
money pages. And likewise for one of our
SAS clients, if we search on Google best
proposal software, we can see Proposify
mentioned right at the top in the AI
overview as well as organic search and
the classic rankings. And likewise, if I
do a similar search on chat GBT, I can
see Proposify mentioned right here at
the top. So, classic SEO still
important. It's super important to have
a solid foundation on your website. Once
you've worked out all those money
keywords that dream clients could
search, not when they're in information
gathering mode, but when they're ready
for that sales conversation. And really
making sure your website is a 24/7 sales
rep. Having all those pages, whether
that's industry pages, use case pages,
integration pages, service based and
feature pages, listicles for all the
types of variants of software tools and
platforms that folks could be searching
for. the competitor pages as well as the
classic pages for things like pricing,
about, results, case studies, and more.
Really making sure you've got those
lines in the water as dedicated pages,
which are not just there for the sake of
being there, but they follow SEO best
practices. So, they're written to really
talk about the problem someone might be
facing, the impact of that problem, why
they should consider choosing you, how
you're differentiated, showing your
product in action, FAQs, and much, much
more. Essentially acting as a 24/7 sales
rep, like we mentioned. And another big
component of AI search or AEO answer
engine optimization is brand mentions
which bridges the gap between classic
SEO and AEO. So a lot of the time SAS
marketing leaders and founders will ask
me Sam how can we quickly show up in AI
search results top. I'll say super easy
just go back in time 10 to 15 years and
build a brand. And that's why so many of
the big players in your niche or your
category have great visibility on AI
search and LLMs because they've got so
many external niche relevant websites
mentioning their brand. That could be
review sites, press, forums or many
more. But the good thing is brand
mentions are going to help you both in
Google organic search as well as AI
search and LLMs. And backlinks
definitely still have their place
certainly for boosting those hard to
rank money keywords on Google organic.
And a big one here from a SAS lens is
once you've nailed everything on your
own website, really control the
narrative with all the relevant pages,
articles, listicles that make sense from
a high commercial intent standpoint is
you want to start being mentioned on
external websites that are building
these listicles. So any other websites
that are being cited already in Google
organic, in overviews, in chat GBT and
similar, you want to get featured top
three placements in those listicles
evaluating software tools platforms like
yours. And you can actually do this with
manual outreach. Like at breaking B2B,
we reached out to 10 15 competitors that
were building these listicles. We
actually got a bunch of placements, many
of which we did trades, swaps or
similar. A lot of the times you can get
featured placements in these for value
exchanges and yes, some will be
payto-play too. And the great thing
about getting placements in these
external listicles that are being
mentioned in Google AI views, chat GBT,
and more is you essentially get three
hits in one. So you get your brand
mention, you get your backlink, but
because of that top three placement, you
could also get direct leads from folks
stumbling upon that listical article and
they might even inquire directly or grab
a sign up there and then. And another
nice example for our client Fibler, if
we do quite a specific search, so Hockey
Stack alternatives for LinkedIn,
someone's not going to search this for
fun. They're probably having quite high
sales intent looking for a specific
software solution. We can see that Fiba
are mentioned number one here in the AI
overviews. And we can also see their
listicle mentioned here that you can
click through to for the top eight
hockey stack alternatives. And outside
of this, LLM's also citing from other
places like Reddit threads where folks
could be evaluating or looking for
advice on software in your industry.
Industry blogs and publications like we
mentioned just now. Review sites like
G2, Capter Terra, or whatever review
site is relevant for your industry.
Podcasts along with the transcripts.
That's why I often recommend guesting on
niche relevant podcasts as a huge SEO
win for both brand mentions, visibility,
direct lead flow, as well as backlinks
and that SEO and AI search value.
YouTube videos can often get pulled up
in AI search plus super good for
embedding on relevant website pages for
classic Google organic search. The key
here is to think of SEO and AI search
not as just one silo channel, but really
thinking of your B2B and SAS marketing
as an ecosystem and steadily showing up,
building trust, entertaining, educating
your dream clients. So when they really
need the solution, when they have the
problem you solve or when they're
evaluating options, you're the brand of
choice. And depending on the size and
resources that you've got for your own
marketing team, I'd say to do this on a
priority basis. So, one, working out
those money keywords and prompts that
you really need to nail down. Then
making sure your website is bestin-class
with all those money keywords and pages
that really address everything we've
discussed. Then steadily looking to do
those offsite activities and doing it on
a priority basis. So depending on
resources that you've got in house or
cash that you can assign to work with a
team or agency, tackling external
channels or platforms one by one really
on what's going to have the most impact.
And ideally, it's backed by customer
research. Starting with those no-brainer
external channels that your dream
clients go to to get trusted information
from. And a few quick best practices to
help you get best bang for buck on
classic Google organic search and AI
search results. So, here's a listical
article we recently worked on for Fiba.
So, top eight hockey stack alternatives
and a few things. So, making sure you've
got the publish date. You can also add
the author, maybe an image of the author
bio, having the money keyword within the
H1 itself. So we've got Hockey Stack
alternatives and also having that money
keyword within the metatitle and the
description in your URL. Actually having
that money keyword there too. So in this
case/hockey stack hyphen alternatives
adding structured data to the page. We
usually do a quick summary of what the
article is about and again AI tools like
to pull from this. We'll do a short list
table again that can be pulled into AI
searches. do a brief intro like why you
should look for in this case an
alternative why trust us again this
helps with being pulled into AI searches
visual social proof as folks are
flicking through so in this case we've
got a highlighted testimonial with the
client's name and their company as this
is an alternative based listical we'll
talk about the competitor so in this
case what is Hockey Stack a visual of
their platform and a quick rundown then
why you should consider a Hockey Stack
alternative so you can see all the
headings are broken down H2s H3s and
then we'll pull from customer research
so that might be taking reviews choose
from G2. Then we'll have a full table of
the alternatives positioning as Fibler
with the number one choice. And again,
AI searches can pull from this data.
We'll position Fibler as number one. Not
focused on showing how amazing and
awesome we are, but actually backing it
again by that customer research where
we're a great fit, we're a poor fit.
Show the product in action. Ideally,
show the aha moment of when your product
clicks into play. talking about some of
the key features that Dream Clients care
about, where we're differentiated,
reviews and ratings and pricing, and
then a fair summary of the other tools
on the market. And you'll also see here
we've got a fixed call to action on the
side of the page. So, no matter where
you scroll, you can see that call to
action and easily, in this case, grab a
sign up. Yours could be book a call or
demo. It's also worth doing five or so
internal links to relevant pages. And
the other thing I'd say is when you're
building articles or other types of
content for your site, make sure they
act as a sales rep. So you'll see
through this Fiba one we went through,
there's plenty of visuals, examples,
screenshots of the product in action,
social proof, and more. So one, it's
super engaging for folks if they're
flicking through it on their PC or their
mobile. Two, they can actually build
confidence that your brand is trusted
and you can deliver on what they're
looking for. And three, you're actually
going to solve the issues, frustrations,
or problems they're looking to solve.
and then make it nice and easy for them
to get in touch, grab a sign up or grab
a demo. You can also add relevant FAQs
to pages. So, if there's questions that
you often get asked on sales calls or
customer success or support calls on the
topic, those are really useful as those
can attract longtail queries and prompt
and also act as a sales enabler. So, if
folks already get the answer to their
question on page, they might be more
likely to get in touch. And I'd
recommend regularly reviewing your
bottom offunnel commercial content,
whether that's industry pages, landing
pages, product pages, commercial
listical articles, or otherwise, keeping
them fresh, up to date, making sure
you're blowing out any other pages that
are ranking top on the internet, making
sure yours is super useful, adding
relevant stats. If you've got any unique
industry research, that can be a great
leverage point for being cited and
mentioned in AI searches. Plus, LLMs
love to pull from freshly updated
content. And there we have it. If you
want help making SEO and AAO a top
pipeline driver for your SAS company,
why not grab a call with me over at
breaking B2B.com. Often times SAS
companies see pipeline flowing as quick
as 90 days from working with us. So,
book your call in the link in the
description below or head over to
breaking B2B.com. Or if you're not ready
yet, check out my 90 days torevenue
video course and playbook. Head over to
breakingb2tb.com and hit the newsletter
tab to unlock it instantly. Or you can
check out the breaking B2B podcast for
weekly interviews with SAS marketing
leaders. And with that, I shall catch
you on the next one. Cheers.